He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, “You are Simon the son of John; you shall be called Cephas” (which is translated Peter).

King James Version
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone.

Holman Bible
and he brought Simon to Jesus.

When Jesus saw him, He said, “You are Simon, son of John. You will be called Cephas” (which means “Rock”).

International Standard Version
He led Simon to Jesus. Jesus looked at him intently and said, "You are Simon, John's son. You will be called Cephas!" (which is translated "Peter").

A Conservative Version
And he brought him to Jesus. And having seen him, Jesus said, Thou are Simon the son of Jonah. Thou will be called Cephas (which is interpreted, Peter).

American Standard Version
He brought him unto Jesus. Jesus looked upon him, and said, Thou art Simon the son of John: thou shalt be called Cephas (which is by interpretation, Peter).

Amplified
Andrew brought Simon to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, “You are Simon the son of John. You shall be called Cephas (which is translated Peter).”

An Understandable Version
So, Andrew brought Simon Peter to Jesus. [And when] Jesus saw him, He said [to him], "You are Simon, the son of John [Note: Peter's father is called Jonah in Matt. 16:17]; you will be called Cephas (which means Peter [i.e., "a stone." See Matt. 16:18])."

Anderson New Testament
He first found his own brother Simon, and said to him: We have found the Messiah; (which, when translated, is the Christ;)

Bible in Basic English
And he took him to Jesus. Looking at him fixedly Jesus said, You are Simon, the son of John; your name will be Cephas (which is to say, Peter).

Common New Testament
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, "You are Simon son of John. You shall be called Cephas" (which means Peter).

Daniel Mace New Testament
and he brought him to Jesus. and when Jesus beheld him, he said, "thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas," which is by interpretation, a stone.

Darby Translation
And he led him to Jesus. Jesus looking at him said, Thou art Simon, the son of Jonas; thou shalt be called Cephas (which interpreted is stone).

Godbey New Testament
He led him to Jesus. Jesus looking upon him said; Thou art Simon the Son of Jonah, thou shalt be called Cephas (which is interpreted, Peter).

John Wesley New Testament
And he brought him to Jesus. And Jesus looking upon him, said, Thou art Simon, the son of Jonah; thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, Peter.

Julia Smith Translation
And he brought him to Jesus. And Jesus having looked upon him, said, Thou art Simon son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is, interpreted, Peter.

King James 2000
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, You are Simon the son of Jonah: you shall be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone.

Lexham Expanded Bible
He brought him to Jesus. Looking at him, Jesus said, "You are Simon the son of John. You will be called Cephas" (which is interpreted "Peter").

Modern King James verseion
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus saw him, He said, You are Simon the son of Jonah; you shall be called Cephas (which translated is, A stone).

Modern Spelling Tyndale-Coverdale
And brought him to Jesus. And Jesus beheld him and said, "Thou art Simon the son of Jonas, thou shalt be called Cephas," which is by interpretation, a stone.

Moffatt New Testament
He took him to Jesus; Jesus gazed at him and said, "You are Simon, the son of John? Your name is to be Cephas" (meaning 'Peter' or 'rock').

Montgomery New Testament
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked intently at him and said: "You are Simon, son of John; you shall be called Cephas" (or 'Peter,' which means 'Rock').

NET Bible
Andrew brought Simon to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, "You are Simon, the son of John. You will be called Cephas" (which is translated Peter).

New Heart English Bible
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him, and said, "You are Simon the son of John. You shall be called Cephas" (which is translated, Peter).

Noyes New Testament
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looking upon him said, Thou art Simon, the son of John; thou shalt be called Cephas; (which signifieth Peter, that is, Rock.)

Sawyer New Testament
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looking at him said, You are Simon, the son of Jonas; you shall be called Cephas; which is interpreted, Peter [Rock].

The Emphasized Bible
He led him unto Jesus. Jesus, looking at him, said - Thou, art Simon, the son of John, - thou, shalt be called, Cephas; which is to be translated, Peter.

Thomas Haweis New Testament
And he brought him to Jesus. Then Jesus looking on him, said, Thou art Simon the son of Jonas: thou shalt be called Cephas, which, interpreted [in Greek], is Petros, a Rock.

Twentieth Century New Testament
Then he brought him to Jesus. Fixing his eyes on him, Jesus said: "You are Simon, the son of John; you shall be called Kephas" (which means 'Peter,' or 'Rock').

Webster
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas; which is, by interpretation, a stone.

Weymouth New Testament
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, "You are Simon, son of John: you shall be called Cephas" --that is to say, Peter (or 'Rock')

Williams New Testament
Then he took him to Jesus. Jesus looked him over and said, "You are Simon, son of John. From now on your name shall be Cephas" (which means Peter, or Rock).

World English Bible
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him, and said, "You are Simon the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas" (which is by interpretation, Peter).

Worrell New Testament
He led him to Jesus. Jesus looking on him, said, "You are Simon, the son of John; you shall be called Cephas," (which is translated Peter).

Worsley New Testament
And Andrew brought him to Jesus: and Jesus looking at him said, Thou art Simon the son of Jonas, thou shalt be called Cephas; which is interpreted a stone.

Youngs Literal Translation
and he brought him unto Jesus: and having looked upon him, Jesus saith, 'Thou art Simon, the son of Jonas, thou shalt be called Cephas,' (which is interpreted, A rock.)

Source: https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/John/1/42
